# Homework_Fintech
This is for my UMN Fintech Program Challenge Assignments
### Homework_Fintech Module 1
# Case Study of Apple Pay

## Overview and Origin
According to Wikipedia, Apple Inc. began in 1976 as "Apple Computer Company" founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozinak, and Ronald Wayne. Today, Apple Inc. has expanded from computers to iPods, iPads, Apple Watches, Apple TV's, iPhones, Apply Pay, Airtag, and much more. The company specializes in redefining the use of personal computers, Graphical User Interface's (GUI's), mp3 players, smartwatches and tablets. 

The idea of Apply Pay was announced in 2014 by Apple's current CEO, Tim Cook. Cook explained that the project was made to redifine the use of credit/debit card payment process. According to Cook, the magnetic strip used to process payments is outdated due to the reliance of the strip on a platic card. Apple's goal was to be able to use their system as "the standard of mobile payments" through major credit card partnerships such as American Express, Mastercard, and Visa. Throught their partership with those companies, the goal was to replace the transfer of personal information via plastic cards with single-use digital tokens. By the end of 2016, Apply Pay has partnered with banks across North America, Asia, Africa, Europe, and South America. 

## Business Activites
 Apple Inc. wanted to redisgn the digital payment process. According to Cook, an issue the company recognized with the use plastic cards includes the reliance of the magnetic strip that deminishes over time, users' personal numbers displayed on cards, and the payment process being outdated. With those issues, Cook claims that the use of plastic cards makes loss and theft way too easy. According to Apple.com, Apply Pay will allow Apple users to make easy, secure, and private transactions. This project was targeted first to banking companies then to the public for personal use.  As of today, Apple Pay is available for use through iPhone and Apple Watch for use on ATMs, vending machines, point of interest systems (POS) that allow NFC payments, and mobile payments. Currently, according to Apple.com, Apple pay is accepted at over 85% of retailers in the US. 

## Landscape
Apple Inc.'s Apple Pay falls into the payment/billing sector of the financial industry. Although Apple Pay has been a project within the company for many years, the project has publically expanded and grown over the last decade. Apple Pay was first announced in 2014, as stated above, and since then, the project has been implemented in major retail stores internationally using a POS system that allows NFC payments. Over the last decade, Apple Pay has played a major role in contactless payment and online transactions. According to Watcher.guru, Apple Pay has an estimated 507 million users worldwide. Other majoy conpanies that compare to Apple Pay include; Google Pay, Cash App, PayPal, Venmo, Zelle, and Google Wallet. These companies are similar to Apple Pay with their contactless payment and digital transfer of money. 

## Results
In the company's most recent fiscal year, it is reported that Apple Pay contributed to less than 1% of the companies revenue. Those numbers were computed by analysts and shared by wsj.com. Apple Pay had $1.9 billion in revenue, meaning that Apple Pay contrbuted less than $100 million. 

## Recommendations
With Apple Inc. having many other products than just an Apple Wallet (like Apple Vision Pro, iPhones, Macs the App Store, iTunes, and more) I would recommend that Apple Inc. begin to expand Apple Card similar to how Delta and American Express partnered to have a "cash back" or rewards system. With the implementation of those systems, I would also have Apple Card user choose from annual membership fees.The membership fees would help pay for the rewards and discounts sent out to users. Apple Card and the user would be offered rewards to spend money within the company. Apple would be able to gain more users and offer rewards towards products such as earpods, chargers, and discounted Apple items. With this, I would recommend that Apple Card expands outside of the United States.
Apple Pay measures success from consumers, customer service, Third Party Adoption, and security. Based on those metrics, the company is pushing for more usage of mobile wallets while also increasing security measures, consumer use, customer service, and Third Party Adoption. According to Financemahnates.com, Apple Pay and it's competitors, like Google Pay, are currently accelerating the global adoptation of contactless payments and the usage of mobile wallets. 

I believe that this membership system would offer the company a competitive lead from other mobile wallet companies since many homes currently contain Apple products. With users being able to gain rewards to use towards more Apple Products, this could increase the use of Apple products amoungst users and homes. For example, when looking for a pair of headphones, Apple Card users may be able to redeem a pair of Apple earbuds instead of buying a different companies earbuds. In order for this to work, Apple would also need to create their own token or digital currency for users to earn and redeem items. 
